Our text is all about hope, and maintaining a positive attitude, despite our circumstances.
The word hope, as it's used in the Bible, is very nicely defined as the expectation
of good things to happen, the expectation that good things will happen.
Now, that's a good mindset to have, trying to stay positive during difficult times.
In our scriptural text in 1 Thessalonians 5-8, Paul connects hope with the helmet that
is worn by the Roman soldier.
And in our spiritual warfare, we want to wear the hope of salvation as a helmet to protect
our minds from Satan's temptations and ideas designed to corrupt our thinking and create
negative emotions that can cause us to be hopeless instead of hopeful.
The watchtower that we're considering this morning, it made this comment.
Some might reason, I will never be among those who live forever.
I am just not good enough.
I will never be able to measure up to God's standards.
And the devil knows that if we allow ourselves to dwell on such negative thoughts, then our
hope will fade.
So to keep hope alive in your heart, work hard each day to live with the expectation that
good things will happen.
One example I would like to discuss this morning briefly of one who kept an expectation of
good things was Joseph.
Please turn with me to Genesis chapter 40.
Now we remember the account in Genesis chapter 39 where Joseph was wrongly accused of
attempted rape of Potiphar's wife and as a result, he was imprisoned.
And then in chapter 40, in verses 1 through 4, it discusses the chief baker and the chief
cup bear as sinning against Potiphar, and they too were thrown into prison along with
Joseph.
In verse 5 of chapter 40, mentions the cup bearer and the baker, they both have a dream one
night, and apparently this dream disturbs each one of them.
Note Joseph's response in verses 6 and 7 when he sees the cup bearer and the baker the
next morning.
This is a good lesson that can help us to stay positive throughout adversity.
Verses 6 and 7, it says.
The next morning, when Joseph came in and saw them, they looked, dejected.
So he asked the officers of Pharaoh who were in custody with him in his master's house,
why are your faces gloomy today?
That's interesting.
Despite being in prison himself, Joseph still cared about others.
When you go through a challenging situation and you begin to lose hope, focus on others.
Jesus said that there's more happiness in giving, so when we focus less on ourselves and
more on others, that can keep our hope alive because we experience a greater happiness.
Well, eventually Joseph interprets the dreams of the cup bearer and the baker.
Let's read his interpretation.
It's in verses 12 and 13.
It says, then Joseph said to him, this is the interpretation.
The three twigs are three days.
Three days from now, Pharaoh will bring you out, restoring you to your office, and you
will put Pharaoh's cup into his hand as you did before when you were his cup bearer.
Wow, that's good news for the cup bearer.
He's going to be released, and he's going to get his old job back.
Well, how does Joseph feel about this cup bearer's good news?
Notice what Joseph says to the cup bearer, verse 14.
Nevertheless, you must remember me when things go well with you.
Please show me loyal love and mention me to Pharaoh in order to get me out of this place.
Joseph wanted relief from that sweltering filthy prison.
Have you ever felt that way in prison in a challenging assignment, trapped in an aging
body and a failing mind, confined by negative emotions, or stuck in a difficult family situation?
The reality is we're all trapped in some way.
And perhaps you say to Jehovah, get me out of this place.
Well, what did Jehovah do for Joseph?
Did he get him out?
No, he didn't.
Joseph was still confined to that prison for years, and the cup bearer did nothing to help Joseph get out.
But you know what Jehovah did for Joseph?
Jehovah caused Joseph's interpretations to come true for both the cup bearer and the baker.
This was evidence that Jehovah was with Joseph, and this kept Joseph in expectation
that good things would happen.
That's hope.
So when facing difficult challenges and you call out to Jehovah, get me out of this place.
If the answer is no, always remember that Jehovah has already done good things for you.
The watchtower we're considering this morning, it says this.
When you meditate on what God has done for you already,
you will strengthen your hope in what He will do for you in the future.
This helps us to stay hopeful and keep an expectation that good things will happen.
I was communicating with a circuit overseer about a week ago, and he reminded me of a beautiful experience
illustrating the importance of staying positive in difficult situations.
It involved an older sister from New Orleans, Louisiana, who had to be evacuated to Houston
during the terrible storm, Hurricane Katrina.
As you know, these evacuation centers, they were absolutely horrible.
There was chaos.
And so naturally, our relief brothers were organized to go into these facilities to help
our brothers and sisters.
So they would hold up signs of the watchtower and awake, and the brothers and sisters
in these facilities would see the signs.
They would run to the brothers in tears because finally they were getting help.
Well, on one occasion, they went into the Houston Astridome to look for more friends.
And one of the brothers reported that on this occasion, he saw an older woman
who was standing off in the distance, all by herself.
He said, he thought it was strange because she was in the middle of all this confusion,
and she was just standing there, smiling.
He couldn't get his eyes off of her.
Well, after they finished gathering up a lot of the friends, they prepared to leave the
facility, but still the brother couldn't get the sister off of his mind.
And he was still standing there smiling, or rather the woman off of his mind.
Finally, the brother excused himself from the group and he says,
I need to check something out.
So he approached as the woman.
He said, I don't know why I did it, but he asked the woman, man, if you don't mind me asking,
would you by chance be one of Jehovah's Witnesses?
And then he said in response, her smile got bigger.
And then she started to cry profusely.
And then she said, this, yes, I am, I'm your sister.
I just knew the brothers would come here looking for us, but I want you to know I'm blind.
She couldn't see the signs.
I don't know any of these people.
I was concerned that when the brothers came, they wouldn't be able to find me.
I've been praying to Jehovah after praying to Jehovah the thought came to me just smile.
That's what I've been doing.
And Jehovah found me.
Just a point.
When you're going through adverse challenges, facing trials, sometimes just smile.
Never lose hope and always be assured, Jehovah will find you.
Make the best use of your present circumstances like Joseph and pray for endurance.
If Jehovah doesn't answer your prayer to get you out of this place, take note of the
many other ways Jehovah has blessed you.
Ecclesiastes 6.9, it says, better to enjoy what the eye see than to wonder after one's desires.
Solomon acknowledged that it's wise for us to face reality rather than be obsessed with
negative circumstances.
The Watchtower once stated, if we are humble, we will find it easier to accept life
as it is, not as we think it should be.
Sometimes we feel the grass is greener on the other side, but really the grass is greener
where we water it.
Water the grass where you are planted.
Keep on the helmet of salvation and stay hopeful.
Because with Jehovah, we can always expect that good things will happen.